Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans : It is a formal language comprising a set of instructions that produce different kinds of output

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
javac: It is used to compile java src code into java bytecode
rmic: This is to creat skeletons and stubs for use in Remote Method Invocation
jar: The jar utility uses a standard compression algorithm used by all the most common zip utilities.
javadoc: This can examine the names of classes and the methods contained with a class
wsgen: This generates various artifacts required by Java API for XML Web Services
javap: This is used to disassemble class files, generating info about the methods, properties and attributes of a given
        compiled component

What is IDE?
IDE stands for Integrated Development Environment. Is is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities
to computer programmers for software development.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans, BlueJ, Dr Java, JDeveloper, JCreator, jGRASP, MyEclipse

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Input Unit recieves data from the input devices such as the keyboard, mouse and any other peripherals

Memory Unit: the primary memory unit (Random Access Memory(RAM)) provides fast access storage of computer programs,
data from the input devices and data to be sent to the output devices.

Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU): peforms the arithmetic calculations on data in memory,
such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and comparison.

Central Processing Unit (CPU): manages the other units by sending messages to the input unit to read data into
the memory unit, informs the ALU which data to operate on, etc.

Storage Unit: stores and reads data and programs in long-term storage (e.g. harddisk drive) to be used at a later time.

Output Unit: sends information from the computer to make it available outside of the computer,
printer, network device etc.

what is class?
A class is like an object constructor or a blueprint to create an object. In class you can write, print (execute) code.

What is object?
Object have states and behavoirs. When there is a non static method, object is needed to be created in the main method
in order to print the body from the non static method. Object is also used to print one class to another class

What is the entry point of an application?


Why main is static?
Because main always needs to be static to be able to print, without main being static, it becomes a non static method.
And the method name becomes main

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Java.lang.Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy, which is present in java.lang.package.
All predefined classes and user-defined classes are the subclasses from Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path is used define where the system can find the executable(.exe) files and classpath is used to specify the locaiton

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
In an abstract class, you can have a regular method that can have a body, and you can also have a abstract methods
which cannot have a body.
In interface, it is abstract by default. So you cannot have a regular method. The method is automatically abstract.
So you can't have any body in the method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
You can link Interface and Abstract class to another class where you need to override it
you use implements to link interface and extends to link abstract
then on the override class the override will bring in the methods from interface and abstract after linking them
then in another class you can execute the linked class creating an object. So lets say linked class name is Link
you use
        Link link = new Link();
 then use link.   and method name from the Link class to execute

what is Access Specifier?
This helps us to restrict the scope or visibility of a package, class, constructor, methods, variables,
or other data members

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Object-Oriented Programming. This is used to create objects that contain both data and methods, it provides
a clear structure for the programs

Polymorphism - refers to the ability of OOP to differentiate between entities with same name efficiently.
So there can be 2 methods with name, one has two variables and another three, that's how you find which method
you are talking about

Inheritance - is used to link one class to another calss using extends, this way you can have one class properties
to another class

Abstraction - is a class where you can hide the body of a method by making the method abstract, you can also have a
regular method with a body

Encapsulation - it is used to wrap up data under single unit. It is a protective shield that prevents the data from
being accessed by the code outside its shield

Class - A class is like an object constructor or a blueprint to create an object. In class you can write,
print (execute) code.

Object - Object have states and behavoirs. When there is a non static method, object is needed to be created
in the main method in order to print the body from the non static method.
Object is also used to print one class to another class

Method - It is a collection of statements that perform some specific task, and return result to the called.

Message Passing - It is consist of objects communicate with one another by sending and receiving
information to each other.


What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Java package is where you have java classes. You organize java classes into namespaces.
JJava compiler imports java. lang package internally by default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API is Application programming interface. It is a concept that applies everywhere from command-line tools to enterprise
java code. API is a way to programmatically interact with a separate software component or resource

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Yes, to prevent ambiguity

What is method overloading and when it happens?
It is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method with the same name, if there argument lists
are different

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception is an event, which occurs during the execution of a program, that disrupts the normal flow of
the program's instructions.
If an exception occurs within the try block, it is thrown. Your code can catch this exception (using catch block)
and handle it in some rational manner. System-generated exceptions are automatically thrown by the Java run-time system.
To manually throw an exception, use the keyword throw

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods,
blocks and nested classes.
When a member of the class is declared as static, it can be accessed before the objects of its class are created,
and without any object reference.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
the final keyword can be used while declaring an entity. Using the final keyword means that the value can't be
modified in the future. This entity can be - but is not limited to - a variable, a class or a method.

What is final, finally and finalize?
The final keyword can be used with class method and variable. A final class cannot be instantiated,
a final method cannot be overridden and a final variable cannot be reassigned.
The finalize() method is used just before object is destroyed and can be called just prior to object creation

What is a constructor ?
A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.
The constructor is called when an object of a class is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
he super keyword refers to superclass (parent) objects.
It is used to call superclass methods, and to access the superclass constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
No

What version of java are you using?
Java 11.0.9

What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is Java Development Kit and JVM is Java Virtual Machine. JDK contains JVM and whole other tools for java
development inside it. JVM converts bytecode to machine code and execute it on machine.
There is no matching functionality between JDK and JVM.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM is platform independent. As JDK is responsible for prime development so it contains tools for developing,
debugging and monitoring java application. On other hand JRE does not contain tools such as compiler or debugger etc.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is when the program is compiled. Runtime is when it executes

What is heap?
The area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM

How java manage it's memory?
Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String you can't modify an object, but StringBuffer you can you can modify a StringBuffer object once you
created it without creating any new object
StringBuilder is same as the StringBuffer , that is it stores the object in heap and it can also be modified.
The main difference between the StringBuffer and StringBuilder is that StringBuilder is also not thread safe.
StringBuilder is fast as it is not thread safe .

What is Singleton class?
It is a class that can have only one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is to serialize an object means to convert its state to a byte stream so that the byte stream can be
reverted back into a copy of the object.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
The transient keyword in Java is used to avoid serialization. If any object of a data structure is defined
as a transient, then it will not be serialized. Serialization is the process of converting an object into a byte stream.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
In while loop, condition is evaluated first and then the statements inside loop body gets executed.
In do-while loop, statements inside do-while gets executed first and then the condition is evaluated.

What is Enum?
An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants

What is Iterator?
An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer because it take 128bits (16 bytes) whereas int takes 32bits (4bytes)

Why is String Immutable in Java?
The key benefits of keeping class as immutable are caching, security, synchronization, and performance.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
The process of invoking a sequence of constructors upon initialization of a class object is called constructor chaining

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
The parallel collector has multiple threads that are used to speed up garbage collection.
The parallel collector is intended for applications with medium-sized to large-sized data sets that
are run on multiprocessor or multi-threaded hardware.
Java garbage collection is the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management.

What is JIT stands for?
Just-In-Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or
decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Being an automatic process, programmers need not initiate the garbage collection process explicitly in the code.
It can choose to reject the request and so it is not guaranteed that these calls will do the garbage collection.
This decision is taken by the JVM based on the eden space availability in heap memory.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.
In Java, reflection allows us to inspect and manipulate classes, interfaces, constructors, methods,
and fields at run time.

what is multithreading in java?
It is a feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource with multiple
threads in Java. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a synchronized method which
requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?
Frameworks are bodies of prewritten code used by developers to create apps using the Java programming language

What are the testing Framework available in java?
JBehave, JUnit, Serenity, TestNG, Selenide, Gauge, Geb, Spock

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests.
TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.
JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can run parallel tests.

What are the dependencies for this project?


what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
In Java, static binding refers to the execution of a program where type of object is determined/known at compile time
when compiler executes the code it know the type of object or class to which object belongs.
If linking between method call and method implementation is resolved at compile time then we call it static binding
or If it is resolved at run time then it dynamic binding.